-----------AWS----------

1. aws s3 command : aws s3 ls
                    aws s3 rm
					aws s3 cp
					aws s3 mv
					
2. how can protect data in s3 : using AES 256 encryption and AWS-KMS

3 explain ELB : elastic load balancer

4 EBS vs EFS vs s3
  EBS :Amazon EBS (Elastic Block Store) is a virtual disk for your virtual machine, like your C: and D: drive
  
  
5  EC2 (Elastic Compute Cloud)
   types of ec2
   R - memory optimized
   I - storage optimized
   C - compute optimized
   M - medium :  balance btw memory and storage
   
6 RDS : aurora
		RDS : Amazon Relational Database Service is a distributed relational database service by Amazon Web Services
		Amazon RDS supports an array of database engines to store and organize data and helps with database management tasks, such as migration, backup, recovery and patching.
		
		in rds automatic backup provided by aws
		
7 benefits of AWS
  Easy to use
  Flexibility
  Realiablity
  Sacliablity -- main
  cost effective
  Security
  
8 AWS Service:
  compute
  storage
  database
  migration
  networking
  developer tools
  ML
  mobile services
  modia services
  
  
9 Compute : it helps developers to build scale amd depoly the application to the cloud
           following service comes in compute category
		   1 ec2 2 lambda 3 elb 4 elastic beanstalk
		   
		   AWS Elastic Beanstalk is an easy-to-use service for deploying and scaling web applications and services developed with Java, . NET, PHP, Node. js, Python, Ruby
		   
10 Storage service : used for data storage
    s3 bucket
	EBS : elastic block storage :mainly used by amazon ec2 instance
	Glacier :

11 databse servcie :
   RDS
   dynamo db : non relational
   elastic cache
   amazon redshift
   
12 networking : 
   VPC :  provide private ans secure cloud : You can use both IPv4 and IPv6 for most resources in your virtual private cloud, helping to     ensure secure and easy access to resources and applications. that is control by admin.
   Route 53 : it used for (  DNS domain name system ) . it translate text into ip address.
   Cloud front :
   direct connect :
   
   
13 security: IAM : access control
             KMS : used for securitt
			 
14 cloud watch is used for monotoring for ec2, s3, and rds services

15 key pair is required for ec2 virtual server creationa and authantication
    
16 AWS Lambda is a serverless compute service that runs your code in response to events and automatically manages the underlying compute resources for you. You can use AWS Lambda to extend other AWS services with custom logic, or create your own back-end services that operate at AWS scale, performance, and security.
  
17 MFA – Multifactor factor authentication